
Science has always been a fascinating venture, with its never-ending quest for knowledge and exciting opportunities for stunning discoveries. It began in prehistoric times with ancient greats such as Egypt and Mesopotamia holding sway and has not let up on inundating us with loads and loads of ideas: from the spectacular to the controversial; from that which saves lives to the lethal contraptions of strife and warfare, science has come a long way.
At first, scientists accepted the notion of a divine regulator but as time went on, their restless quest for facts and relevance made the movers of this empiricism trade into propounding ideas that challenged sacred beliefs. Man began to hear theories of the world’s origin which denied the existence of an omniscient creator. Charles Darwin popularized a curious evolution theory that made apes the forebears of human beings and Georges Lemaitre proposed what later became known as the Big Bang on the basis of Albert Einstein’s relativity theory. This thinking challenged the biblical account of creation by suggesting the idea of a universe that came into existence through a massive expansion emanating from nowhere and caused by no-one-knows-what.
After its futile effort at claiming an understanding of all things, science is leading back to God. If you thought that Mathematics was one abstract field of boring number repetition, then you’d have to think again because a professor is mathematically proving a harmony between the scientific, religious and traditional understanding of phenomena. His name is Gabriel Audu Oyibo and he’s a Mathematical Physicist of Nigerian origin respected by many across the world but also vilified by many others who find his ideas rather odd or who are too jealous to admit his “ingenuity”. His God Almighty Grand Unified Theorem (GAGUT) has stirred up a hornet’s nest. He says that GAGUT is the answer to the age-old question about who God is and what the universe is all about.
Professor Oyibo explains that his theorem has been able to establish a concord between the biblical account which attributes creation to God’s word and the scientific explanation that the universe came out of the Big Bang. The belief of ancient Africans about the earth’s origin is also encapsulated in this GAGUT wonder. It is on record that these people in antiquity had postulated that our universe came out of the roaring water waves and out of these water waves came the building block of the universe which was called “atum”. Oyibo says it was that same atum that Greeks mispronounced and called it “atom” when they conquered ancient Africa. He adds that Adam (the first man from a biblical perspective) is the same as atum or atom, the building block which became the basis of Chemistry. In other words, what Christendom calls Word of God is actually what science calls the Big Bang that sounded like the roaring water waves of ancient African belief.  GAGUT explains this mathematically in an equation, Gij,j=0.
Oyibo explains it thus: “the comma is a sign for change in Mathematics. So, what you have in that equation is: a change in an entity called Gij is equal to zero. The believer looks at Gij and says that is the God they believe in. That’s another way of saying God is the same yesterday, today, and forever. God never changes. For the believers, Gij represents God for them. For the scientist and non-believers, Gij represents the unified force skill that produces the power that runs the universe. You look at the word power and God and we conclude that the essence of God is power. The non-believers and believers believe in the same God after all.
“The Gij, is what was at the beginning. The beginning is simply a convenience. There is no absolute beginning. What humans look at as beginning is basically when the material world was created. God always existed. When God began to materialize, the building block was this atum. What was existing therefore is like a thousand Dollars or Naira you started out with in the morning. You stop to get some gas and lunch. You make sure you get the receipts. At the end of the day with your receipts and the remainder you will also have the final amount that you had. If you got the proper receipt and you got the balance, the final amount that you'll have will also be a thousand naira. Subtract the final from the initial you will get zero. That is what Gij is saying. The end and the beginning must be zero. Although you gave your money to somebody, you have the receipts. If you go back you can get your money. The thousand Naira has not changed”.
 On how the world created by a holy God became bad, Oyibo has this to say: “the holy book says, God said, let there be light. There was the sound…the sound transformed into the material to the building block. Then the word changed (and turned into a universe). It is God's word that turned into that entity. Even though later on we'll turn out to be bad boys and girls we are still from God. That is what amazed me about it. It's a kind of transformation, like the naira transformed into the petrol that you bought… and that's what GAGUT was able to demonstrate. GAGUT actually demonstrated that before the material world which is what humans call spirit…waves materialized. You know when you put enough wave together you can get material matter, solid. That's why there's so much talk about wave particle duality in physics. It all started from waves which is the spirit of the Almighty God as the sound wave. Thus God said, "Let there be light." This is again a proof that religion is about knowledge”.
Of what benefit could that Math possibly be in solving human problems? Prof. Oyibo provides an answer: “whatever you are doing now, you'll be able to do it better. That is basically the summary because what you have done up to this point has been done on the basis of approximation…various guesses and so on and so forth. This is the truth. It's the total of the grand truth. Even cooking gari you can do better using GAGUT…we are talking about the cure for AIDS for example; it's embedded in this formula. One of the corollaries of the formula or the cure is truth that can be proven mathematically. And you can consider the thousand naira example as proof. It’s a solid mathematical proof. The application in every aspect of one’s life...cures for incurable diseases currently, resolution of our own human problems”.
A breathtaking account if you ask me. And the world has accepted it with mixed feelings. Many science experts have subscribed to it and some others have dismissed it as mere figment of the inventor’s imagination. Western critics may oppose it out of an avowed determination to discard as unscientific any idea that gives deference to God. Their rejection may also not be unconnected with many a white man’s unwillingness to let an African lay claim to superiority. All the same, that’s good for those who need tangible proof to believe God. Yet, The Almighty is not eager to prove himself to the unbelieving – he does not need the approval of scientists to be who He is! The truth remains that faith in Jesus is stronger proof than any scientist would ever muster- it produces astonishing results that beat imagination: healing for incurable diseases, radical mental transformation and much more.  
Of course science, like other fields of human endeavour, has always been skewed in some aspects to favour some interest or belief (never mind all the claim to empiricism). Archaeologists of African origin would present evidence showing that life and civilization began in their motherland. But an American archaeologist if he discovers such facts may hide it or explain it in some manner convenient to him. Historians on their part tell history often from an angle that favours their places of origin. Philosophers and the whole lot of thinkers have their varied definitions of what reality is at different points in time. It’s not a surprise then that economic experts in Nigeria are always in sharp disagreement about what the right policies are.
The bottom line then is that humans will always be the imperfect creatures that they are, interpreting issues in the light of their biases. Anyone who thinks he can disprove the established truth of an all-knowing, all-seeing and perfect God is attempting to climb a mountain whose top man has never reached and never will reach. Whether the GAGUT theorem is true or not cannot change who God is, and whoever depends solely upon empiricism for direction in life will definitely miss his way because science is always subject to changes and human idiosyncrasies.          
If you’re one of those who would fly out of the classroom window whenever your Math teacher strolled in, you’d better repent and go back to the exciting world of science. But in all your knowledge acquisition, never lose sight of the truth that God’s word supersedes all the ideas in all of the world’s books put together.
 